Artificial intelligence, the development of systems which carry out tasks that normally humans are
meant to do.
To build artificial intelligence systems, we take an input.
And then, based on a set of rules which have been predefined, we are able to obtain the output.
This way of telling a computer based on a set of rules to produce a given output is known as symbolic
artificial intelligence, short form symbolic A.I..
This kind of A.I. was very popular in the 1950s, going up to the 1980s, especially in the gaming industry,
as we could define a set of rules such that when giving us input, the current positions of different
pieces on the chessboard, the computers able to decide on the next best move, which is the output.
Apart from symbolic air, there are other branches of artificial intelligence.
And one of them, which has become very popular in the past years, is machine learning and machine
learning.
We have.
A model.
And with this model, we pass in input and output.
So notice the direction of the arrows here.
We have this to get in in unlike here where this gets in and then we have this output going out.
So yeah, we have firstly this input and this output, which is what we would call a data set, given
that this is data from this model learns the set of rules which would symbolic we actually define.
So it's symbolic, I would define this rules by hand while we're machine learning.
These rules are automatically learned by the model self.
And once this rules are learned.
When given a new input.
We use this learned model to give an output.
Also, with machine learning, several branches exist and one of them is deep learning.
Deep learning is a branch of machine learning which makes use of neural networks which can learn from
very huge data sets going up to billions and even trillions of data points and can solve problems in
computer vision, natural language processing, speech recognition, and in many other domains.
Machine learning, just like deep learning, can be broken up into several parts.
Supervised learning, unsupervised learning and reinforcement learning.
What we just demonstrate at, yeah, was supervised learning in which we have some input data as does
input and output from in our data set.
Our model is trained, our model learns from that dataset.
And then later on when we need to solve a problem, we pass in the input.
And that learned model now is able to generate an output based on this learning, based on this previous
learning process.
A simple example could be an object detection.
We could pass in input data or input images and they are labelled outputs.
So we could have an image which contains a cell phone and then the output is labelled so that we the
model knows that in this image there is actually a cell phone.
And then once this model is trained over thousands or even millions of such cell phone image and output
pairs.
Now, when presented an image in which there is a cell phone, the model is able to see that there is
a cell phone in that image.
So that is supervised learning as the word goes.
The learning process is supervised since we have the input and we also have the output.
And so the supervision is done by the fact that when, for example, we have an input image containing
the cell phone, the output clearly states that there is a cell phone in that image.
The next and most promising subsection is the unsupervised learning and of supervised learning.
The model learns from just the inputs.
So there is no supervision, there is no outputs.
We just pass in the input the model learns.
And then next I want to pass the input.
The model is able to generate outputs based on this learning model.
We took only the inputs.
We see that there is a limitation with the supervised learning method because with supervised learning
we have to get the inputs first.
And then we also need to annotate and see that this input, for example, contains a cellphone.
This input doesn't contain the cell phone and so on and so forth, both unsupervised learning and we
just simply passing the inputs on the model learns.
So we see that if we are to build a system which works on real data, we will be able to do that quickly
and more efficiently with the unsupervised learning techniques, since we don't necessarily need to
annotate every input.
A clear example of the power of unsupervised learning was shown recently with the paper which used unsupervised
learning to train speech recognition models.
Now in speech recognition, generally we have the data so that we have the speech.
That's the actual.
Sound signal and then the output is a transcription.
So the model is going to learn how to get this kind of sound signal and then I'll put the right transcription.
In a language like English, it's very easy to have.
I'll build such large data sets since the billions of people will speak English around the world.
Now what are those languages in which gathering such data is very challenging?
Like, say, I was in the northern part of Cameroon or Orissa in India.
This becomes challenging as getting the right annotations isn't very easy.
So if we have a kind of learning system in which we just simply pass on the inputs and the model learns,
then that's perfect for such languages as all we need to do now is to allow people speak, and then
the model learns how to do the transcription automatically without necessarily having the input signal
and the output transcription during the learning process.
The other type of machine learning is reinforcement learning to understand reinforcement learning.
We are going to consider an environment, an interpreter and an agent.
The interpreter gets information about the environment and then passes it on to the agent, and then
the interpreter rewards the agents depending on how well it took this action.
And so at the end, we have this agent, which is learning how to take the best actions since is being
rewarded by the interpreter.
A simple application of this could be in the chess game.
So our environment is a chess board.
And then we are trying to train this agents to make the best moves based on the current state of the
environment and also using the reward system from the interpreter.
The reasons why machine learning and deep learning to be more precise, has grown in popularity in the
past years is because firstly there is availability of this training data.
And this training data come from many sources on the Internet.
We have Wikipedia, YouTube and Twitter, which are just a few of the thousands of Web pages and applications
from which users input data every second.
And since this machine learning models feed on this data, it becomes obvious that the availability
of such data has made the machine learning field very popular.
Nonetheless, it should be noted that when working with classical machine learning algorithms, as we
increase the data, the performance starts to stagnate at a certain point, and that's where deep neural
networks come in.
It happens that with deep neural networks, as this data increases, the performance to increases,
and that's why the neural networks have received so much attention lately.
The next reason why machine learning has become a hot topic is because of the availability of hardware,
especially the GPUs and the CPU's GPU actually stands for graphical processing unit and TPU tensor processing
unit.
This devices, although previously known for their use in the gaming industry with the GPU graphics
cards, now actually have using machine learning.
Reason being that many times we are training our very deep models on very large data sets.
By deep within the mean if we have this model with let's just take this as inputs and then we have outputs.
So this model has to layers in between.
And this is a layer.
I would say this is a layer.
This is a layer and this a layer.
There's an input and there's the output.
So with this too, we layers we would call hidden layers.
I would say this neural network is shallower compared to on neural network with 20 of this hidden layers.
And so, by the way, our meaning the amount of hidden layers which are stacked now coming back to the
GPUs training, such models are very computationally expensive.
And so if we could make use of the parallel nature of this computing devices, it becomes interest in
the sense that we can now popularize the training process and hence speed up this training process.
Apart from data on hardware, the other point which makes machine learning very popular today is the
advancement in the kind of machine learning and deep learning algorithms which have been built.
And throughout this cause, we shall look in details, this algorithm.